2D train game

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
KNOWN BUGS KNOWN BUGS KNOWN BUGS KNOWN BUGS KNOWN BUGS KNOWN BUGS KNOWN BUGS KNOWN BUGS KNOWN BUGS 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A switch can be deleted even when hosting a train.
Wagons saved on a the inactive side of a SwitchCell are not properly loaded.
Speed indicators may be placed on switch cells but are not saved and loaded.
World map is not properly updated on station removal.
A train that crosses itself in an intersection is not loaded properly.
Wagons are not perfectly centered, especially when comparing 90 and 270 degrees heading.
TEs are not snapped onto the correct RailSegment.
A Locomotive does not brake hard enough at low speed.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO TODO 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Display latitudes and longitudes on the side of the map.
Speed limits options for the menu shall be read from the config file.
Stop timers shall be set to 5 and 10 seconds.
Stations shall have a built-in stop signal.
i18n
Some objects have a vision range that allows to discover nearby areas.
Add a smoother interpolation for Perlin noise.
Add a configuration file that specifies the initial size of the terrain and the file to load at startup.
Tracks shall not be laid on water.
Tracks shall not be laid above a certain altitude.
Brigdes can be built over water and support tracks.
Tunnels can be dug underground and support tracks.
Stations shall not be placed on water.
Adapt the viewpoints to the new menu.
End of limit sign on the WorldPanel shall be drawn using the black and white sign.
Links between cars shall be saved from file.
Links between cars shall be loaded from file.
The menu sidebar shall be scrolled with a mousewheel click and a mouse movement.
The windows shall display statistics about the tracks and trains.
Splitscreen shall allow the player to view different parts of the world in sub-panels.
Smooth out cars movement in curves.
A switch that does not have its 3 connections yet shall display part of each existing connection.
Pressing Control increases the zoom factor.
Toroidal map - pacman-style with day/night cycle.
Spherical map with hexagonal tiles.
Add a tool to automatically remove every non-connected piece of tracks.
The mouse indicator shall change with the GUI tool currently active.
Add cells with two parallel sections of track, with 1-to-2 parallel switches, and train collisions.
When tracks are being laid, a fast movement of the mouse shall still create a continuous set of tracks.
A special type of locomotive shall lay new tracks over empty terrain.
Stations with buildings shall provide resources: coal, diesel, material to build new tracks.
Locomotives shall be displayed in a panel with their speed and direction, and the list of their next stations.
When a new loco gets into a station, it shall register all the stations registered by other locos on the same line.
Text on the "save file" popup should be adapted.
Allow tracks to join two non-opposite corners of a cell, i.e. NE to SE.
Allow a single cell to contain two sets of non-crossing tracks, i.e. N-SE and S-NW.
Display info about locos in small stickers next to them.
Locomotives shall be numbered independantly from the wagons.
Long-range 45째 or 90째 turns, that link two distant squares with a track independant from the other squares it crosses.
Wagons shall be created and linked together by click and drag over a track.
Stations names shall be selected from a list made of real-life subway stations of cities.
Passengers on the platform shall be positioned away from the tracks.
Rain makes braking distances longer.
The grid shall show one in ten lines at large enough scales.
The world shall contain water areas.
Water areas can be crossed by bridges.
The world shall contain mountains of different altitudes.
A railroad on a slope shall have an impact on the speed of any TrainElement that drives on it.
TrainElements shall turn smoothly in curves.
Tracks and trains shall have a simplified drawing version for large-scale visualization.
Speed limits and stop signs shall spread to the whole tile at large scales.
Cells shall be drawn as sprites.
A TrainLink shall be connected to a point close to either end of the TrainElement, not to its center.
A new TrainLink shall be created or severed between two existing TrainElements, without any TE being created or deleted.
Locomotives can be electric or coal-fueled.
Electricity is brought from a production tile to the tracks via cables, tracks are fit with an overhead line or via the tracks.
Coal is produced at a specified rate in the factory.
Coal is loaded at a specified rate into a coal wagon and has mass.
Snap : a TE shall be snapped to a RailSegment only if the velocity is reasonably aligned. Crossings become obvious.
A TrainLink shall have a maximum allowed force, above which it shall break.
The CutLink shall allow to remove the link between two TrainElements.
A TrainElement shall have a length that depends on its sub-type.
A TrainElement shall not be added if too many elements are too close.
A cell may have a speed indicator that the loco shall observe, and increase its max speed or apply brakes.
A Cell may be a junction and contain two possible layouts, one being active and the other one greyed out.
A carriage stores its passenger max and current capacity.
An IntersectionCell is a special cell, where one track splits into several tracks.
A passenger shall find a path from its current position to its target: which line to use, which station to walk to.
A passenger may walk from one station to another if the stations have one side in common.
Add portal cells.
Sound design: trains make noise, passengers talk.
Train sound is only heard at a convenient zoom level.
Passenger dialogue is only heard at close zoom level.

Tools:

Display a list radio buttons for locomotives in a panel; a selected radio button will focus the view on the loco.
Focus from static view to loco view shall be smoothed.
Focus on a full train, a loco and everything linked to it.
Display the current speed of each loco if a radio button is checked.

Create passengers with destination.

High-Speed trains:
Can drive faster than other trains.
Only high-speed tracks accept certain speeds; the higher the speed (above the limit), the greater probability that the track fails.
Trains leave track and crash if turns are taken at an excessive speed.

Tracks wear off with time and use, and need to be replaced.
Tracks wear off quicker when trains drive faster.
High-speed tracks are more expensive per unit length.
Passengers pay money when they get to their destination.

When the user requests a track be created outside the world bounds, the world must be extended one row or column.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE DONE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A StationCell may not host a switch.
A Switch may no longer be deleted if it hosts a train.
Fixed: An AIOOB exception occurs when a train leaves a track cell where a switch was deleted.
Fixed: Exception raised when the file specified by config.txt does not exist.
Fixed using a Swing timer and cell indices: Simulation gets very slow when 8-10 or more links between TrainElements are used.
Chunks are replaced with a fixed-size array.
Only modified or populated cells shall be written to file.
Altitude for cells with a negative row or column is incorrect.
Chunks shall be loaded via a click using the "chunk" tool.
Map is not explored at first, unexplored chunks are not visible.
Smooth display at large scale: background rendering shall be done using chunks.
Display stations over terrain.
Extracted the Perlin noise generator to its own file
Added scales and amplitudes for Perlin noise.
Implemented Perlin noise - single scale.
Menu revamp: small buttons with icons are displayed on the WorldPanel, former toolbar is removed.
Viewpoints are saved to file.
Viewpoints are loaded from file.
Viewpoints can be deleted.
The user shall be able to record and name the current viewpoint which shall be displayed in a list.
A right click on a SwitchCell shall toggle the switch.
A switch indicator shows what part of a switch is active.
Placing a track no longer removes a switch.
Fixed: a track with a train may not be removed or replaced.
Locos must observe the stopping time upon leaving the cell that specifies a stop.
The Remove Tracks tool shall allow to remove switches.
Fixed: Switch Cells now save their TrainElements.
Switches are saved to and loaded from file.
TrainElements shall follow the tracks defined by switches.
Added switches - in progress
Simulate only cells that have trains or passengers.
Fixed: A large amount of tracks, even without a train, will slow the game down. Fixed by simulating only active cells.
Straight tracks: a GUI button allows to select one cell and choose another in the two axis or two diagonals, then link them.
Straight tracks: in World.setLongDistanceTracks, check that the values correspond to a correct axis or diagonal.Pressing Control allows tracks to be laid diagonally in a straight line.
Pressing Control allows to place straight tracks over long distances, horizontally or vertically.
When a cell is emptied of everything, it shall be removed from the data stucture.
The world as a sparse matrix shall still be painted the same way.
The world shall be stored as a sparse matrix.
Fixed: Passengers are lost when moving diagonally through cells.
Added tool to generate passengers with start and target stations.
Fixed: Passengers walking through 2 connections (through 3 stations) disappear and keep walking when they enter the third station.
Passengers shall walk along a walkway to reach another station.
Passengers now only board a wagon at zero speed.
Setting a stop timer or a speed limit on a cell that already has the same timer or limit shall deactivate it.
Display only visible tiles.
Dampen springs between TrainElements: increased strength, decreased damping.
Bug fixed: Walkways may be saved too many times on file.
Panel view and zoom shall be saved to file and loaded from file.
WorldMap with its train lines for each loco shall be saved to file and loaded from file.
Tracks, trains and stations shall be saved to file and loaded from file.
Speed limits and stop signs shall be saved to file and loaded from file.
Passengers shall use the logical map to find their way.
A logical map of the tracks shall be updated when locos drive into stations.
The links between two neighboring stations is made upon world map computation.
Stations shall have unique colors.
Passengers shall have the same color as their target station.
A station cell may be crossed by a railway.
A station cell may host passengers.
A passenger may transfer between a station cell and a wagon inside that cell.
A passenger has a station ID target.
Passengers inside their wagon shall be displayed on aligned seats.
Passengers board wagons up to capacity.
Passengers do not board when they already are at destination.
Toolbars shall be set vertical on either side of the window.
Speed of TrainElements is now represented with a heading and linear velocity, not as vx and vy. Thus, locos no longer are reversed by slowing wagons.
Create a stop timer: any loco in that cell shall stop for the given amount of time and may then start moving again.
Solved bug: Tracks are not build as they should when drawn on top of existing tracks.
Implement speed limits in a cell, that are set to each loco crossing that cell, and stay active until another limit is set or the limit is removed.
Draw roadsigns to show the speed limits, in an empty part of the cell.
Tracks shall connect two sides of a cell, or one side and one corner of a cell, and be aligned vertically, horizontally or diagonally
Train tracks shall be drawn procedurally with rails, ballast and railroad ties, on top of the cell.
Curves allow for 90째 and 45째 turns, tracks can be placed diagonally.
TrainElements shall be drawn as sprites.
ConcurrentModificationExceptions when painting scene, fixed using SwingUtilities.invokeLater
A track may be removed by clicking in the cell with the 'Track' tool active.
A cell may be emptied from its TrainElements when clicked with the 'Empty Cell' tool activated.
Square grid
One cell is either empty or a station.
A cell may host one railway, which is made of several RailSegments.
Loco and carriage are subclasses of TrainElement.
Create stations.
Create tracks with the mouse.
Rails in turns shall be bent.
A loco moves along the track and visits successive cells.
A train is made of any number of locomotives and any number of carriages.
A train element stores its absolute position and speed.
A link stores references to the two elements it links.